[music]
So let's now create a task that will whenever we add an image to the images folder in the source folder,
it will get minified and then added to the images folder in the distribution folder.
So let's install a new package.
It's called "gulp-imagemin".
So I'm gonna install it.
Make sure you are in the right directory.
So after it's done
I'm gonna go ahead and import it in the gulpfile. So "import imagemin from 'gulp-imagemin'".
And then let's create a new task.
Or let's put the source and destination path for the images task here first.
So the source will be
"src/assets/images".
And then we want to detect all the images inside this folder, not just one image like we did for the
the SASS files.
So to do that we can use the * thing and this will
match all the files and subfiles with the extensions between the .
So you can add whatever image extensions you want to minify.
And then the destination is gonna be "dist/assets/images".
So let's create the task now.
"export const ", let's call it  "images". And then create an arrow function and then we'll return the gulp
no stream.
So "gulp.src"
I think I mistyped "return".
And then "paths.images.src".
And then we'll pipe the imagemin plugin.
We can also do this only for production.
So let's use the "gulpif()"
if PRODUCTION run the imagemin().
And then save it to destination folder.
So "paths.images.dest".
So that it. Let's try it out now.
So I have an image here. In my desktop. So I'm gonna copy it in the source folder,
the assets,
and the images.
And then run "gulp images".
And let's go to the dist folder.
And the assets/images.
And here we have the image.
Now if you run the the task with the production flag.
So the same as it is just a bit small to it.
It can't be minified so I get,
I got a larger image.
So let's try it out. Let's put in the source and then images
And let's go to the dist folder
and run the command again with the production flag. So as you can see here
"Minified 1 image by 1.8%". Great.
So let's see what we can do next.
So what if we have the we want to add something to the assets folder in the source but we don't really want
to run any task on it.
We just wanted to copy it. Like for example we can add a font folder here and we want just to copy
it into dist folder.
So let's create a task for that.
And this one will not require any plugins. I'll just make a new key here.
Let's call it "other"
and source for it will be an array.
So we need to match all files and folders in the assets directory in the source folder, except the ones that
we run tasks on.
So the "!" here will exclude these folders. So I want to exclude assets and then we can use the
here to type multiple folders inside the assets directory. So the "images"
and the "js" and the "scss".
And then we'll have to do the same thing.
But the same for any files and folders inside these directories.
So what we've done here, we want to copy all the files inside the assets except the ones that we
run tasks on images, js and scss folder and the files and folders inside of them. We don't need
to copy these as well.
So let's write the task now. And I'm gonna call it "copy".
Sorry.
And what we have to do is
just "gulp.src
(paths.other.src)" and I think we forgot to.
Yeah we forgot to type the destination.
So the destination will be just the assets folder.
So anything that matches the other source paths. We'll just pipe it and save it or copy it rather to the
assets folder which is "paths.other.dest". And that's it. So let's try this.
We're inside the source folder now.
And the "assets". And let's say let's use one of the images. So let's copy and paste this image.
But outside the images folder. So before they copy task
nothing should happen. But after running to copy task
it should appear here.
So let's try this out.
Let's run "gulp copy".
And we've an error "path is not defined", ok.
Another error.
Ok, I'm sorry I should type here
"gulp
.dest".
And should work.
And it didn't work.
Must have.
All right.
I mistyped the destination folder.
Sorry about that.
And let's try it again
And we have our image
copied from
the source folder to the dest folder.
And that would apply to any folder or anything that you copy inside the assets folder except the images and
css and the js folder that
we'll create probably in the next lecture. I just have one problem now. If we, in the source folder, decided
to delete an image
or delete a folder or delete anything inside the assets.
It won't get deleted in the dest folder.
So let's try tackle this in the next section.